Hundreds of grassroots groups have sprung up around the world to teach programming, web design, robotics,
and other skills outside traditional classrooms.  These groups exist so that people don't have to learn these
things on their own, but ironically, their founders and instructors are often teaching themselves how to teach.

There's a better way. Just as knowing a few basic facts about germs and nutrition can help you stay healthy,
knowing a few things about psychology, lesson design, inclusivity, and community organization can help you
be a more effective teacher. This book presents evidence-based practices you can use right now, explains why
we believe they are true, and points you at other resources that will help you go further.

Parts of this book were originally created for Software Carpentry's instructor training program, which has been
run over a hundred times during the past six years. You can share and remix this material under the Creative
Commons - Attribution 4.0 (CC-BY) license. Please see:

               http://teachtogether.tech

to download a digital version, purchase a printed copy, or suggest a correction or addition.














































1.  Be kind: all else is details.
2.  Remember that you are not your learners..
3.  ...that most people would rather fail than change...
4.  ...and that ninety percent of magic consists of knowing one extra thing.
5.  Never teach alone.
6.  Never hesitate to sacrifice truth for clarity.
7.  Make every mistake a lesson.
8.  Remember that no lesson survives first contact with learners...
9.  ...that every lesson is too short from the teacher's point of view and too long from the learner's...
10. and that nobody will be more excited about the lesson than you are.









Greg Wilson has worked as a programmer and teacher in industry, academia, and the non-profit sector
for 35 years. He is the author or editor of several books on programming and two for children. To learn
more about him, please see http://third-bit.com.